---
layout: post
title: "Talk by Olivier Carton &#8211; Two-way transducers &#8211; 18/Jul &#8211; 17hs"
---
Time: Wednesday 18 July, 17hs. Place: Departamento de Computacion, (room to be determined) Title: Two-way transducers Speaker: Olivier Carton, Université Paris Diderot Abstract: In this talk, we consider two-way transducers with a two-way output tape. To each cell of the input tape corresponds a cell of the output tape where the transducer can write a finite word. At each transition, the transducer reads one cell of the input tape and either leave unchanged the corresponding cell of the output tape or write a new word into it, overwriting the previous content. We show that each relation realized by such a two-way transducer is rational. It can be realized by a one-way transducer. We also show that any rational function can be realized by a deterministic two-way transducer. Olivier Carton is professor at the Université Paris Diderot and member of the LIAFA and INFINIS (Association between CONICET-UBA/CNRS-Universite Paris Diderot) laboratories. Olivier Carton is a renowned expert in automata theory. http://www.liafa.univ-paris-diderot.fr/~carton/Time: Wednesday 18 July, 17hs. Place: Departamento de Computacion, (room to be determined) Title: Two-way transducers Speaker: Olivier Carton, Université Paris Diderot Abstract: In this talk, we consider two-way transducers with a two-way output tape. To each cell of the input tape corresponds a cell of the output tape where the transducer can write a finite word. At each transition, the transducer reads one cell of the input tape and either leave unchanged the corresponding cell of the output tape or write a new word into it, overwriting the previous content. We show that each relation realized by such a two-way transducer is rational. It can be realized by a one-way transducer. We also show that any rational function can be realized by a deterministic two-way transducer. Olivier Carton is professor at the Université Paris Diderot and member of the LIAFA and INFINIS (Association between CONICET-UBA/CNRS-Universite Paris Diderot) laboratories. Olivier Carton is a renowned expert in automata theory. http://www.liafa.univ-paris-diderot.fr/~carton/Estan todos invitados proximo Miercoles 18 de Julio, a las 17 hs Lugar: Departamento de Computacion, aula a determinar Título: Two-way transducers Orador: Olivier Carton, Université Paris Diderot Resumen: In this talk, we consider two-way transducers with a two-way output tape. To each cell of the input tape corresponds a cell of the output tape where the transducer can write a finite word. At each transition, the transducer reads one cell of the input tape and either leave unchanged the corresponding cell of the output tape or write a new word into it, overwriting the previous content. We show that each relation realized by such a two-way transducer is rational. It can be realized by a one-way transducer. We also show that any rational function can be realized by a deterministic two-way transducer. Olivier Carton es profesor de la Universidad Paris Diderot y miembro del Laboratorios LIAFA y INFINIS (Asociado CONICET-UBA/CNRS-Universite Paris Diderot). Olivier Carton es un reconocido especialista en teoria de automatas http://www.liafa.univ-paris-diderot.fr/~carton/