---
layout: post
title: "Two researchers from U. Nacional de Gral. Sarmiento visit U. Paris Diderot (LIAFA) &#8212; May/2014"
---
Eda Cesaratto and Guillermo Matera visit LIAFA as part of an ongoing collaboration with Julien Clement, Brigitte Vallée, Valérie Berthé and Loick Lhote. They will participate a series of talks that will take place on 26 May and whose details are described below. **Place:** Salle commune LIAFA PPS 3052 Bât. Sophie Germain 3ème étage **Program:**10h00-10h30 : accueil 10h30-12h30: présentation du projet Thème 1: Brigitte Vallée (Caen) Thème 2: Eda Cesaratto (Buenos Aires) Thème 3: Julien Clément (Caen) Thème 4: Alfredo Viola (Montevideo) 13h : repas Crous Buffon. 14h30 : G. Matera On the number of elements in families of univariate polynomials over a finite field with a given factorization pattern 15h30: Alfredo Viola How to find and enumerate k correlation-immune functions of minimum weight: an algorithmic approach 19h30 : repas restaurant Dupont (a cote du labo) 27 mai 10h00-12h30 : Eda and Valerie Analysis of some parameters of interest in Sturmian words 13h : repas Crous Buffon 14h30 : Brigitte Vallée On periodic trajectories Eda Cesaratto and Guillermo Matera visit LIAFA as part of an ongoing collaboration with Julien Clement, Brigitte Vallée, Valérie Berthé and Loick Lhote. They will participate a series of talks that will take place on 26 May and whose details are described below. **Place:** Salle commune LIAFA PPS 3052 Bât. Sophie Germain 3ème étage **Program:**10h00-10h30 : accueil 10h30-12h30: présentation du projet Thème 1: Brigitte Vallée (Caen) Thème 2: Eda Cesaratto (Buenos Aires) Thème 3: Julien Clément (Caen) Thème 4: Alfredo Viola (Montevideo) 13h : repas Crous Buffon. 14h30 : G. Matera On the number of elements in families of univariate polynomials over a finite field with a given factorization pattern 15h30: Alfredo Viola How to find and enumerate k correlation-immune functions of minimum weight: an algorithmic approach 19h30 : repas restaurant Dupont (a cote du labo) 27 mai 10h00-12h30 : Eda and Valerie Analysis of some parameters of interest in Sturmian words 13h : repas Crous Buffon 14h30 : Brigitte Vallée On periodic trajectories Eda Cesaratto and Guillermo Matera visit LIAFA as part of an ongoing collaboration with Julien Clement, Brigitte Vallée, Valérie Berthé and Loick Lhote. They will participate a series of talks that will take place on 26 May and whose details are described below. **Place:** Salle commune LIAFA PPS 3052 Bât. Sophie Germain 3ème étage **Program:**10h00-10h30 : accueil 10h30-12h30: présentation du projet Thème 1: Brigitte Vallée (Caen) Thème 2: Eda Cesaratto (Buenos Aires) Thème 3: Julien Clément (Caen) Thème 4: Alfredo Viola (Montevideo) 13h : repas Crous Buffon. 14h30 : G. Matera On the number of elements in families of univariate polynomials over a finite field with a given factorization pattern 15h30: Alfredo Viola How to find and enumerate k correlation-immune functions of minimum weight: an algorithmic approach 19h30 : repas restaurant Dupont (a cote du labo) 27 mai 10h00-12h30 : Eda and Valerie Analysis of some parameters of interest in Sturmian words 13h : repas Crous Buffon 14h30 : Brigitte Vallée On periodic trajectories